README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="./images/logo.svg" width="360" alt="php-nginx-docker logo" />

# php-nginx-docker-template

Production-ready PHP-FPM + Nginx container stack for local development, CI images, and lightweight deployments.

  <div>
    <a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/lahiru98s/php-nginx-docker-template"><img src="https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/lahiru98s/php-nginx-docker-template.svg" alt="Docker pulls" /></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nooblk-98/php-nginx-docker-template/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/nooblk-98/php-nginx-docker-template?logo=github" alt="Latest release" /></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nooblk-98/php-nginx-docker-template/actions/workflows/docker-build-push.yml"><img src="https://github.com/nooblk-98/php-nginx-docker-template/actions/workflows/docker-build-push.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI" /></a>
    <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/2.0/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC%202.0-blue.svg" alt="License: CC BY-NC 2.0" /></a>
  </div>
</div>

---

This template bundles hardened Nginx + PHP-FPM on Alpine, tuned for fast startup, low memory, and predictable behavior. Out of the box you get:
- Non-root runtime, locked-down defaults, gzip and cache tuning, and basic security headers.
- Supervisor + tini for graceful shutdowns and managed services (nginx, php-fpm, cron if enabled).
- Prebaked Dockerfiles for PHP 7.4, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, and 8.4 (edge) with opcache tweaks.
- Health endpoints `/fpm-ping` and `/fpm-status` (localhost only) and a ready-to-serve sample app.

## Quick start (compose)
```bash
docker compose up -d
open http://localhost:8080
```

## Build from source
```bash
# Default: PHP 8.3 on Alpine 3.20
docker build -t php-nginx:8.3 .

# Override PHP/Alpine versions (must exist in apk repos)
docker build -t php-nginx:8.2 --build-arg PHP_VERSION=82 --build-arg ALPINE_VERSION=3.19 .
```

### Version matrix (prebaked Dockerfiles)
- PHP 7.4 (Alpine 3.15): `./php74/Dockerfile`
- PHP 8.1 (Alpine 3.18): `./php81/Dockerfile`
- PHP 8.2 (Alpine 3.20): `./php82/Dockerfile`
- PHP 8.3 (Alpine 3.20): `./php83/Dockerfile`
- PHP 8.4 (Alpine edge): `./php84/Dockerfile` (also tagged `latest`)

## Run (single container)
```bash
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 php-nginx:8.3
```
Open http://localhost:8080 after the container starts.

## Compose overrides
`docker-compose.yml` mounts `configs.php_overrides` into `/etc/php${PHP_VERSION}/conf.d/99-overrides.ini`. Override via env (in a `.env` file or your shell):
```bash
EXPOSE_PHP=Off
DISPLAY_ERRORS=Off
LOG_ERRORS=On
MEMORY_LIMIT=256M
MAX_EXECUTION_TIME=60
MAX_INPUT_TIME=60
POST_MAX_SIZE=32M
UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE=32M
DEFAULT_CHARSET="UTF-8"
PHP_VERSION=83 # compose maps this to the correct conf.d path
```
Then run `docker compose up -d`.

## Common troubleshooting
- `apk add php81-* not found`: use the Alpine release that ships that PHP minor (8.1 => Alpine 3.18). PHP 8.4 currently needs `edge`.
- `permission denied` on sockets/logs: ensure the container runs as `app` and mounts are writable by the `app` UID/GID (created in the Dockerfile).
- Slow builds on CI: enable buildx cache with `cache-from/cache-to` (type=gha) in the workflow.
- Healthcheck failing: confirm `/run/php/php-fpm.sock` exists and nginx points to it; hit `/fpm-ping` inside the container for a quick check.

## Highlights
- Minimal Alpine footprint, non-root by default, gzip/cache and header hardening applied.
- Supervisor-managed services with tini as init for clean signal handling.
- PHP-FPM over unix socket, tightened pool settings, and opcache tuned for speed.
- Nginx hides server details and exposes `/fpm-ping` + `/fpm-status` for health checks (localhost only).

Commit message:

Add Docker Hub support to CI and update README
The GitHub Actions workflow now supports logging in and pushing images to Docker Hub if credentials are provided, in addition to GHCR. The README is updated to document both registries, clarify image references, and provide manual push instructions.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="./images/logo.svg" width="360" alt="php-nginx-docker logo" />

# php-nginx-docker-template

Production-ready PHP-FPM + Nginx container stack for local development, CI images, and lightweight deployments.

  <div>
    <a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/lahiru98s/php-nginx-docker-template"><img src="https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/lahiru98s/php-nginx-docker-template.svg" alt="Docker pulls" /></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nooblk-98/php-nginx-docker-template/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/nooblk-98/php-nginx-docker-template?logo=github" alt="Latest release" /></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nooblk-98/php-nginx-docker-template/actions/workflows/build-and-push.yml"><img src="https://github.com/nooblk-98/php-nginx-docker-template/actions/workflows/build-and-push.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI" /></a>
    <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/2.0/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC%202.0-blue.svg" alt="License: CC BY-NC 2.0" /></a>
  </div>
</div>

---

Hardened Nginx + PHP-FPM on Alpine, tuned for fast startup, low memory, and predictable behavior. Out of the box you get:
- Non-root runtime, locked-down defaults, gzip/cache tuning, and basic security headers.
- Supervisor + tini for graceful shutdowns and managed services (nginx, php-fpm).
- Prebaked Dockerfiles for PHP 7.4, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, and 8.4 (edge) with opcache tweaks.
- Health endpoints `/fpm-ping` and `/fpm-status` (localhost only) and a sample dashboard showing PHP limits/extensions.

## Quick start (compose)
```bash
docker compose up -d
open http://localhost:8080
```

## Build from source
```bash
# Default: PHP 8.3 on Alpine 3.20
docker build -t php-nginx:8.3 .

# Override PHP/Alpine versions (must exist in apk repos)
docker build -t php-nginx:8.2 --build-arg PHP_VERSION=82 --build-arg ALPINE_VERSION=3.19 .
```

### Version matrix (prebaked Dockerfiles)
- PHP 7.4 (Alpine 3.15): `./php74/Dockerfile`
- PHP 8.1 (Alpine 3.18): `./php81/Dockerfile`
- PHP 8.2 (Alpine 3.20): `./php82/Dockerfile`
- PHP 8.3 (Alpine 3.20): `./php83/Dockerfile`
- PHP 8.4 (Alpine edge): `./php84/Dockerfile` (also tagged `latest`)

## Run (single container)
```bash
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 php-nginx:8.3
```
Open http://localhost:8080 after the container starts.

## Images & registries
- GHCR: `ghcr.io/<owner>/php-nginx:<tag>` (8.4 also `latest`). CI uses the built-in `GITHUB_TOKEN`.
- Docker Hub: `docker.io/<dockerhub_username>/php-nginx:<tag>`. Provide `DOCKERHUB_USERNAME` and `DOCKERHUB_TOKEN` secrets in GitHub Actions to push automatically.

Manual push example (Docker Hub):
```bash
docker build -t youruser/php-nginx:8.3 .
docker login -u "$DOCKERHUB_USERNAME" -p "$DOCKERHUB_TOKEN"
docker push youruser/php-nginx:8.3
```

## Compose overrides
`docker-compose.yml` mounts `configs.php_overrides` into `/etc/php${PHP_VERSION}/conf.d/99-overrides.ini`. Override via env (in a `.env` file or your shell):
```bash
EXPOSE_PHP=Off
DISPLAY_ERRORS=Off
LOG_ERRORS=On
MEMORY_LIMIT=256M
MAX_EXECUTION_TIME=60
MAX_INPUT_TIME=60
POST_MAX_SIZE=32M
UPLOAD_MAX_FILESIZE=32M
DEFAULT_CHARSET="UTF-8"
PHP_VERSION=83 # compose maps this to the correct conf.d path
```
Then run `docker compose up -d`.

## Common troubleshooting
- `apk add php81-* not found`: use the Alpine release that ships that PHP minor (8.1 => Alpine 3.18). PHP 8.4 currently needs `edge`.
- `permission denied` on sockets/logs: ensure the container runs as `app` and mounts are writable by the `app` UID/GID (created in the Dockerfile).
- Slow builds on CI: enable buildx cache with `cache-from/cache-to` (type=gha) in the workflow.
- Healthcheck failing: confirm `/run/php/php-fpm.sock` exists and nginx points to it; hit `/fpm-ping` inside the container for a quick check.

## Highlights
- Minimal Alpine footprint, non-root by default, gzip/cache and header hardening applied.
- Supervisor-managed services with tini as init for clean signal handling.
- PHP-FPM over unix socket, tightened pool settings, and opcache tuned for speed.
- Nginx hides server details and exposes `/fpm-ping` + `/fpm-status` for health checks (localhost only).
